I will come back.
This video here we're going to be learning how to control the axes of data our classes and methods and
anything else right.
It's our program.
So let's go ahead and open our co-editor really simple.
I'm going to do a Save As some class on the score car three dot BHP or you can do or save some classic
heritance is up to you.
All right.
And we just want some of this functionality there especially the class and we're going to call this
class underscore at CES.
All right.
So now we want to open this in a browser.
Now I want to explain a couple of details to you now.
All right.
So now this word usually took control data we use three different keywords that will help us make this
happen.
First one is we can declare properties public.
The second is protected.
And the third one is private.
When we declare something public it means the same thing as bar.
It means that it is available through our whole program.
All right so these data here is public.
Very descriptive.
Protect the means that is only available to this class or any subclasses that will or maybe a class
that will extend the same functionality as this one so it will be available to that one for privacy.
It will only be available to this class meaning that even if you do extend the classroom Harrod some
of those properties you will not be able to use it.
The private information you can make methods private and you can make them public and protected the
same way as you can make properties.
All right.
So let's first let's take I'll take this idea here because I want to show you an example or what I'm
talking about.
Now we know that we can come here and say you know what BMW I want to see your wheels.
Right.
So let's first do the echo and we want to see wheels when we go in the browser with C-4.
That is perfect we can do that and we can as a matter of fact use any of these because.
Right.
Well look look at this.
Look what happened.
I use Hood
we get a narrower array of course.
We get an error.
Think about it.
I say we can use this within this class of protected we can use that insight right now what we're doing.
We're trying to use it outside of class you see.
Now if I go here let's see let's make a mentor and say we sure show property.
Let's go this shall property and let's go ahead and say this hood
and this is A.F. from here.
All right.
And instead of this one here we're going to call in show property and I'm going to explain to you what
I did right now but you know this.
Look at that.
Now we can see that see even though this is protected this hood is protected we can see it because we
are using it.
And I tell you we can use it inside of a class or inside any subclass that extends it.
All right.
So right now we are using this inside of the class.
We can go ahead and comment it out and create another last call this.
I don't know semi This is by the way a big truck right.
And we can go ahead instantiated is right and say new semi right.
And then we say semi stands.
And if you don't know what I'm riding here you need to go back to the video and look at the classic
inheritance right.
You need to go but not on this video.
But in another lecture and this distance car.
So now what I want to do is I want to use I when I use this function here as a matter of fact I don't
have to use a function there.
Well I could if I wanted to take that out of there and just put it right here then what I'm going to
do is I'm going to use semi to call that and look at that you see that.
So I made another class here that extended this class and I was able to use protected in psi this night
with a show property.
So as you can see the show protected we can use it inside the class or inside any subclasses.
But what happens if I try to use the engine see this try to actually do this the engine when I get an
error because the engine is private.
I can I use the engine property right there says undefined properties and my engine doesn't even recognize
own define an engine.
Right.
So I can use that privacy there.
It doesn't even know that it's there because it's private to that right.
So how can I use this private well take that out of here.
This function here.
Let's put it back here
and let's go ahead and we'll be in W here.
And let's just take this the end of you and we can use it inside the class private.
All right so no the differences here probably we can use anywhere we want.
And I would actually make this a little neater for you so when you go to your course that is as far
as you can see what's going on.
But no that probably we can use it anywhere Protech that we can only use it inside the class or inside
subclasses.
All right.
And Matt that's of course and the private we can only use it inside this specific class.
We cannot use it any in any subclasses or outside the function.
Right so just privacy a more tighter security for data.
This is like a semi tight security semi-secret in between public and private.
And this is just everything free data.
Right.
But anyway thank you so much for watching this lecture.
Hopefully you understand the concept and know that this is very important and that you should be using
public protected privacy to control the absence of data inside your program.
Take care and I'll see you in the next lesson